>> Brown: A MILE-WIDE TORNADO
RIPPED THROUGH OKLAHOMA LATE
TODAY, FLATTENING HOMES AND
BUSINESSES AND CRUSHING CARS
AND TRUCKS.
GD EVOOENING, I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT: WE GET
LATEST ON THE MASSIVE TWISTER
THAT FIRST TOUCHED DOWN NEAR
OKLAHOMA CITY, FROM THE NATIONAL
WEATHER SERVICE IN NORMAN,
OKLAHOMA.
>> Brown: THEN, A PITCHED BATTLE
FOR A KEY SYRIAN CITY RAGED ON
FOR A SECOND DAY.
WE UPDATE THE BLOODY CIVIL WAR,
AS FIGHTERS FROM LEBANON'S
MILITANT GROUP HEZBOLLAH
TAKE UP ARMS TO SUPPORT THE
ASSAD GOVERNMENT.
>> Woodruff: A SIX-YEAR-OLD
COMPANY WITH NO PROFIT AND
LITTLE REVENUE GETS BOUGHT FOR
MORE THAN A BILLION DOLLARS.
WE DISCUSS WHAT'S BEHIND TECH
GIANT YAHOO'S GRAB FOR THE
BLOGGING PLATFORM TUMBLR.
>> Brown: MYANMAR'S PRESIDENT
VISITS THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY
FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE 1966.
RAY SUAREZ EXPLORES WHAT THE
RENEWED RELATIONSHIP MEANS FOR
U.S. INTERESTS IN ASIA.
>> Woodruff: SPENCER MICHELS
HAS THE STORY OF A SAN FRANCISCO
STARTUP, PUSHING TALENTED
TECHIES TO WORK WITH LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS TO TACKLE HUNGER,
BLIGHT AND OTHER CIVIC PROBLEMS.
>> WE THINK THAT THE PEOPLE HAVE
THE SKILLS OF CODING AND DESIGN
AND CREATING TECHNOLOGY, REALLY
HAVE SOMETHING TO OFFER THE
COUNTRY RIGHT NOW, AND WE THINK
GOVERNMENT IS WHERE THEY NEED TO
BRING IT.
>> Brown: AND WE DEBATE
PSYCHIATRY'S NEW THOUSAND-PAGE
MANUAL OF MENTAL DISORDERS AND
THE VERY REAL CHALLENGE OF
DIAGNOSING PATIENTS.
> Br>own: THAT'S ALL AHEAD
> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD
ON TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
A TORNADO STRUCK THE
OKLAHOMA CITY AREA THIS
AFTERNOON, FOR THE SECOND TIME
IN TWO DAYS.
AN ENORMOUS TORNADO BLASTED
WHOLE NEIGHBORHOODS AND LEFT
LITTLE BUT SHREDDED WRECKAGE IN
ITS WAKE.
THERE WAS NO IMMEDIATE WORD ON
CASUALTIES.
"NEWSHOUR" CORRESPONDENT KWAME
HOLMAN HAS OUR REPORT.
FROM EXPLODING TRANSFORMERS
DOTTED THE BLUE-BLACK HORIZON.
>> THERE'S A HUGE FLASH RIGHT
THERE.
IT IS JUST RIPPING UP EVERYTHING
IN ITS PATH.
>> IN OKLAHOMA CITY, STATE
LAWMAKERS AND EMPLOYEES ALIKE
QUICKLY MADE THEIR WAY TO A
BASEMENT SHELTER.
SOME 35 TO 40 MINUTES LATER, THE
GREAT CLOUD FINALLY SPENT ITS
FURY AND DISINTEGRATED.
IN ITS WAKE, MILE AFTER MILE OF
DEVASTATION SOUTH AND SOUTHWEST
OF OKLAHOMA CITY PROPER.
SCORES OF HOMES AND OTHER
BUILDINGS HAD BEEN LEVELED,
INCLUDING AN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
CARS AND TRUCKS WERE SMASHED
TOGETHER ON HIGHWAYS.
>> OH, MY GOSH.
I DON'T KNOW IF PEOPLE LIVED IN
THAT ONE.
>> Reporter: AND FIRES BURNED
OUT OF CONTROL.
PART OF A MAJOR INTERSTATE
HIGHWAY WAS SHUT DOWN.
THE SUBURB OF MOORE,
THE SUBURB OF MOORE WAS ALSO HIT
HARD BY A TORNADO IN 1999, AND
TODAY'S STORM CAME  LESS THAN 24
HOURS AFTER ANOTHER TORNADO
STRUCK IN THE OKLAHOMA CITY
AREA.
>> I HAD TO STOP BECAUSE THE
WINDS WERE PUSHING MY TRUCK, AND
I HAD TO SLOW DOWN TO ABOUT 10
MILES AN HOUR, AND I WAS TEXTING
WITUALLY THE LADY I WORK TH
AND I TOLD HER, 'MAN, THESE ARE
THE CRAZIEST WINDS I'VE EVER
SEEN'."
>> Reporter: SUNDAY'S TWISTER
TOUCHED DOWN OUTSIDE SHAWNEE,
KILLING TWO ELDERLY MEN DEAD AND
INJURING MORE THAN 30 PEOPLE.
OTHER TWISTERS TOUCHED DOWN
SUNDAY IN KANSAS AND IOWA.
>> WE JUMPED UP AND RAN INTO THE
SHED.
ONCE WE GOT THE DOOR SHUT, WE
HEARD THE ROOF TAKE OFF.
>> Reporter: ALL OF THIS CAME
LESS THAN A WEEK AFTER TWISTERS
PUMMELED TEXAS,  KILLING SIX
PEOPLE IN THE SMALL CITY OF
GRANBURY... SOUTHWEST OF
FORTWORTH.
SERGEANT
KNIGHT, WELCOME.
WHAT CAN YOU TELL US AT THIS
POINT ABOUT THE EXTENT OF THE
DAMAGE.
>> WELL, THERE'S AREAS OF SOUTH
OKLAHOMA CITY AND MORE THAT HAVE
SUFFERED TOTAL DESTRUCTION OR
EXTREME DEVASTATION.
MOORE SITS ON THE SOUTH END OF
OKLAHOMA CITY.
THEY SIT ADJACENT TO EACH OTHER.
THE TORNADO TRAVELED THROUGH
MOORE AND THEN MOVED NORTHEASTLY
INTO SOUTHERN OKLAHOMA CITY.
THERE'S A TWO OR THREE MILE AREA
WHERE THERE WAS UTTER
DEVASTATION.
I DON'T HAVE ANY NUMBERS ON
INJURED PEOPLE OR IF THERE... IF
THERE ARE FATALITIES INVOLVED IN
THIS.
OUR WORKERS ARE STILL TRYING TO
GET TO MANY PEOPLE WHO ARE
TRAPPED IN THOSE AREAS.
REALLY OUR MESSAGE FOR THE
PUBLIC IS FOR ANYBODY IN THAT
AREA PLEASE STAY OFF THE
ROADWAYS.
STAY OUT OF THE AREAS TO LET
EMERGENCY WORKERS IN.
I KNOW THEY'RE HAVING DIFFICULTY
GETTING AROUND EVERYBODY PLUS
GETTING AROUND ALL OF THE DEBRIS
IN THE ROADWAY.
>> Brown: I UNDERSTAND YOU DON'T
HAVE ANY SENSE OF FATALITIES OR
INJURIES AT THIS POINT BUT DO
YOU HAVE A SENSE OF HOW MANY
PEOPLE... WERE THERE A LOT OF
PEOPLE IN THE PATH OF THE
TORNADO.
>> THERE WERE NUMEROUS
NEIGHBORHOODS IN THE PATH OF THE
TORNADO THAT WERE JUST
COMPLETELY LEVELED.
SO THAT'S CERTAINLY SOMETHING
THAT WE'RE TRYING TO ADDRESS AND
GET INTO THOSE PLACES JUST AS
THE MOORE POLICE AND ALL THE
FIRST RESPONDERS IN THAT AREA
ARE TRYING TO GET IN THERE AND
DO EVERYTHING THEY CAN TO ASSIST
ANYONE WHO IS TRAPPED OR
INJURED.
>> Brown: DO YOU KNOW HOW MUCH
WARNING PEOPLE HAD?
>> THERE WAS A GOOD AMOUNT OF
WARNING.
THE LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS
HERE... I MEAN, THEY'RE VERY
GOOD AT TORNADO FORECASTING,
BEING IN THIS PART OF THE
COUNTRY.
THEY WERE COVERING THE TORNADO
AS IT CAME DOWN OUT OF THE SKY.
AND THEY WERE LETTING PEOPLE
KNOW AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
I KNOW THE TORNADO SIRENS WERE
SOUNDING BUT IT WAS A VERY
FAST-DEVELOPING STORM, A
FAST-DEVELOPING TORNADO.
UNFORTUNATELY IT MOVED THROUGH A
HEAVILY POPULATED AREA.
>> Brown: I WAS GOING TO ASK YOU
TO DESCRIBE THE AREA A LITTLE
BIT MORE.
HEAVILY POPULATED.
YOU REFERRED TO VARIOUS
NEIGHBORHOODS SO THIS IS A SUB
URBAN AREA WHERE HOMES, SCHOOLS,
EVERYTHING, RIGHT?
>> IT WOULD HAVE BEEN A SUB
URBAN AREA.
THERE ARE SOME BUSINESSES THAT
WERE STRUCK.
IT CROSSED I-35 AND IT'S TO THE
AREAS JUST EAST OF INTERSTATE
35.
THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN HARDEST
HIT.
THERE ARE SOME BUSINESSES ALONG
I-35 THAT WERE STRUCK.
THEN YOU MOVE INTO NEIGHBORHOODS
WHERE THERE WAS AT LEAST ONE
SCHOOL, ONE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
THAT WAS STRUCK AND SUFFERED
SEVERE DAMAGE TO IT.
I DON'T HAVE ANY NUMBERS AGAIN
ON INJURED, BUT MOSTLY
NEIGHBORHOODS.
THERE WERE SOME BUSINESSES BUT
MOSTLY NEIGHBORHOODS THAT WERE
JUST FLAT OUT LEVELED.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO MOST IMPORTANT FOR YOU RIGHT
NOW IS, AS YOU SAID, GET
PEOPLE... PEOPLE STAY OFF THE
STREET.
WHAT ELSE?
>> LET THE EMERGENCY WORKERS IN
TO DO WHAT THEY NEED TO DO TO
HELP GET THESE PEOPLE, HELP GET
THESE PEOPLE SOME HELP.
>> AND ONE MORE QUESTION.
WAS THERE A MEDICAL CENTER ALSO?
THERE ARE SOME REPORTS THAT A
MEDICAL CENTER WAS HIT AS WELL.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY INFORMATION
ON A MEDICAL CENTER BEING HIT.
ALTHOUGH THERE IS ONE VERY CLOSE
TO THAT AREA.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SERGEANT GARY KNIGHT IN OKLAHOMA
CITY.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> YOU BET.
THANK YOU.
>> Brown: MORE NOW FROM BILL
BUNTING OF N.O.A.A.'S NATIONAL
STORM PREDICTION CENTER IN
OKLAHOMA.
HE'S A METEOROLOGIST AND THE
OPERATIONS CHIEF THERE.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
I'M NOT SURE IF YOU COULD HEAR
THAT LAST INTERVIEW.
WHAT CAN YOU ADD TO THE EXTENT
OF THE DAMAGE NOW?
WHAT ARE YOU SEEING?
>> WELL, I HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOST
RECENT DAMAGE IMAGES ALTHOUGH
JUST FROM WHAT I'VE HEARD, IT
SOUNDS ABSOLUTELY CATASTROPHIC.
I THINK THE MESSAGE I WOULD WANT
TO GET OUT IS FOR FOLKS THAT ARE
IN THE PATH OF STORMS THAT ARE
STILL ONGOING, TAKE THESE
WARNINGS EXTREMELY SERIOUSLY.
FOLKS IN THIS PART OF THE
COUNTRY TYPICALLY KNOW THAT
SEVERE WEATHER SEASON IS HERE.
IF THEY NEED TO HAVE A PLAN, NOW
IS THE TIME TO PUT THAT PLAN
INTO ACTION.
IF YOU'RE IN THE PATH OF THESE
STORMS, THE SECONDS THAT YOU
TAKE NOW TO PUT YOUR TORNADO
READINESS PLAN INTO ACTION COULD
VERY WELL MAKE THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN LIFE AND DEATH.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE
ENORMOUS SIZE OF THIS TORNADO?
HOW UNUSUAL IS THAT AND WHAT
WOULD CAUSE IT?
>> MOST TORNADOES ARE TYPICALLY
MUCH SMALLER THAN THIS.
THIS IS OBVIOUSLY TOWARDS THE
UPPER END OF THE ENHANCED SCALE
THAT WE USE TO RATE THEM.
WHEN CONDITIONS COME TOGETHER
JUST RIGHT, THE CHANGE IN WIND
SPEED AND DIRECTION, THE AMOUNT
OF INSTABILITY IN THE
ATMOSPHERE, YOU CAN GET THESE
TREMENDOUS CONCENTRATIONS OF
ENERGY.
UNFORTUNATELY SEEING TORNADOES
THAT ARE THE SIZE OF WHAT WE'VE
SEEN TODAY AND UNFORTUNATELY OUR
WORST FEARS HAVE BECOME REALIZED
HITTING HIGHLY POPULATED AREAS.
WE JUST HOPE THAT FOLKS HEEDED
THE WARNINGS AND WERE IN A SAFE
PLACE WHEN THE STORMS HIT.
>> Brown: BECAUSE YOU'VE HAD SO
MANY TORNADOES IN THE AREA IN
THE LAST COUPLE OF DAYS, IN THIS
CASE ONE HUGE TORNADO OR DO WE
EVEN KNOW IF THERE WERE OTHER
TORNADOES ALONG WITH IT OR GOING
ALONG AT THE SAME TIME?
>> WE DON'T KNOW FOR SURE.
TYPICALLY THE LOCAL AND NATIONAL
WEATHER SERVICE OFFICES WILL GO
OUT TOMORROW OR AS SOON AS THEY
CAN GET INTO THE AREA.
OBVIOUSLY RESCUE AND RECOVERY
OPERATIONS TAKES PRECEDENCE BUT
THEY WILL BE OUT AS SOON AS THEY
CAN AND DO AN ACCURATE
ASSESSMENT OF JUST HOW MANY
STORMS, THE PATH, LENGTH AND
WIDTH AND THE INTENSITIES
INVOLVED.
BUT AT THIS POINT, WAY SOON TO
SPECULATE.
>> Brown: AS TO THE WARNING, IS
IT YOUR SENSE THAT PEOPLE DID
HAVE FAIR WARNING AT LEAST FOR
THIS VERY LARGE ONE THAT CAME
THROUGH?
>> WELL, THE STORM PREDICTION
CENTER, THE NATIONAL WEATHER
SERVICE OFFICES AND THE AREAS
AFFECTED HAVE BEEN TALKING ABOUT
THE RISK FOR TORNADOES NOW FOR
SEVERAL DAYS.
WE MENTIONED THAT IT WAS GOING
TO BE A MULTI-DAY THREAT.
AND TODAY, OF COURSE, WAS
ANOTHER ONE OF THOSE DAYS.
IT'S NOT OVER AFTER TODAY.
THE THREAT WILL SHIFT A BIT
EASTWARD TOMORROW AND SO I JUST
HOPE AND PRAY THAT THEY HEARD
THE WARNINGS AND THAT FOLKS WERE
IN THE SAFEST PLACE THEY COULD
BE AND THEY'RE OKAY.
>> Brown: JUST GIVE US A SENSE
OF HOW THIS WORKS BECAUSE PEOPLE
THERE ARE QUITE USED TO
TORNADOES.
HOW MUCH PLANNING GOES INTO
SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
HOW MUCH PREPARATION FOR AN
EVENT LIKE THIS?
>> WELL, WE'VE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT THE THREAT OF TORNADOES AT
THE STORM PREDICTION CENTER, THE
LOCAL NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
OFFICES THAT REALLY INTERFACE
WITH THE COMMUNITIES AND THE
LOCAL BROADCAST MEDIA.
EVERYONE KNEW THIS WAS GOING TO
BE AN ACTIVE WEEKEND AND INTO
THE FIRST PART OF THIS WEEK.
THE DAY-AFTER-DAY THREAT OF
SEVERE WEATHER I THINK HAS
EVERYONE AWARE THAT THE DANGER
IS HIGH.
MOST EVENTS OFTEN AT LEAST THE
TORNADO THREAT EXISTS AND THEN
THINGS ARE QUIETER THE NEXT DAY.
THIS IS NOT UNHEARD OF BUT IT'S
A BIT UNUSUAL THAT WE WOULD HAVE
CONSECUTIVE DAYS OF VERY INTENSE
TORNADOES IN THE THE SAME METRO
POLL AND AREA.
THAT WILL MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT
FOR THE RESCUE AND RECOVERY
OPERATIONS THAT ARE NOW UNDERWAY
IN SEVERAL WAYS.
>> Brown: WE'RE SEEING REPORTS
OF 200-MILE-AN-HOUR WINDS.
HOW UNUSUAL IS IS THAT?
>> THAT'S CERTAINLY EXTREMELY
RARE.
AGAIN THE ACTUAL ASSESSMENTS
WILL TAKE PLACE IN THE DAYS
AHEAD.
BUT IT'S A VERY SMALL PERCENTAGE
OF ALL TORNADOES WITH WIND
SPEEDS IN THAT RANGE.
SO THIS IS A VERY RARE EVENT AND
UNFORTUNATELY A VERY POPULATED
AREA.
>> Brown: BILL BUNTING OF
N.O.A.A., THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": A PITCHED BATTLE
FOR A KEY SYRIAN CITY; YAHOO'S
BILLION DOLLAR BUY FOR A
BLOGGING COMPANY; MYANMAR'S
PRESIDENT AT THE WHITE HOUSE;
SOFTWARE ENGINEERS TURN
TO CIVIC PROBLEMS AND THE
CHALLENGE OF DIAGNOSING MENTAL
ILLNESS.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS
OF THE DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: A WAVE OF
SECTARIAN KILLING ACROSS IRAQ
LEFT AT LEAST 95 PEOPLE DEAD
TODAY.
IT WAS NGLE OAYF
VIOLENCE THERE IN MORE THAN
A YEAR AND A HALF.
TEN CAR BOMBS WENT OFF ACROSS
SHI-ITE NEIGHBORHOODS IN
BAGHDAD.
AT LEAST 48 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
AND MORE THAN 150 WOUNDED IN
THOSE ATTACKS.
CAR BOMBS ALSO TARGETED SHI-ITES
IN THE SOUTHERN CITY OF BASRA.
ELSEWHERE, SUNNIS CAME UNDER
ATTACK IN AREAS NORTH AND WEST
OF BAGHDAD.
IN ALL, MORE THAN 240 PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN KILLED IN IRAQ SINCE
LAST WEDNESDAY.
THERE'S WORD TODAY THAT COMPUTER
HACKERS IN THE CHINESE MILITARY
HAVE RESUMED ATTACKS ON U.S.
COMPANIES AND GOVERNMENT
AGENCIES.
"THE NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTED
THAT TODAY.
THERE HAD BEEN A LULL OF THREE
MONTHS AFTER INDUSTRY AND
PENTAGON INVESTIGATIONS
IDENTIFIED THE CHINESE UNIT
INVOLVED.
THE REPORT CITED SECURITY
EXPERTS WHO SAID THE HACKING IS
BACK UP TO 60% TO 70% OF THE
RATE IT WAS PREVIOUSLY.
THERE WAS MORE TODAY ON THE
I.R.S. TARGETING OF CONSERVATIVE
GROUPS AND WHAT AND WHEN WHITE
HOUSE OFFICIALS LEARNED OF IT.
PRESIDENTIAL AIDES CONFIRMED
THAT WHITE HOUSE COUNSEL KATHRYN
RUEMMLER WAS TOLD APRIL 24 ABOUT
A SPECIAL AUDIT INTO I.R.S.
ACTIVITIES.
SHE, IN TURN, NOTIFIED THE
PRESIDENT'S CHIEF OF STAFF,
DENIS McDONOUGH, AMONG OTHERS.
BUT WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY
JAY CARNEY SAYS RUEMMLER ADVISED
AGAINST TELLING PRESIDENT OBAMA,
BECAUSE THE INVESTIGATION WAS
STILL UNDER WAY.
>> SHE EXPRESSED TO OTHER
MEMBERS OF THE SENIOR STAFF,
THAT THIS IS NOT THE KIND OF
THING WHEN YOU HAVE AN ONGOING
INVESTIGATION, OR AN ONGOING
AUDIT, THAT REQUIRES
NOTIFICATION TO THE PRESIDENT.
BECAUSE, WHAT IS IMPORTANT IS
THAT WE WAIT UNTIL THAT KIND OF
PROCESS IS COMPLETED BEFORE WE
TAKE ACTION.
>> Sreenivasan: CARNEY SAID
AGAIN THE PRESIDENT WAS NOT
INFORMED OF WHAT THE
INVESTIGATION FOUND UNTIL NEWS
REPORTS SURFACED TEN DAYS AGO.
A SENATE COMMITTEE REPORTED
TODAY BETWEEN 2009 AND 2012 THE
TECH GIANT SHIFTED AT LEAST $74
BILLION OUT OF THE REACH OF THE
I.R.S. BY INCORPORATING IN
IRELAND.
APPLE SAYS IT IS THE LARGEST TAX
PAYER IN THE U.S. AT $6 BILLION
AND ITS STRATEGIES ARE LEGAL.
ITS CEO TIM COOK IS EXPECTED TO
TESTIFY AT A SENATE HEARING
TOMORROW.
BOEING'S NEW 787 DREAMLINER IS
AIRBORNE AGAIN IN THE U.S.,
FOUR MONTHS AFTER BEING GROUNDED
OVER BATTERY ISSUES.
UNITED AIRLINES FLEONE W OF THE
NEW JETS ON A HOUSTON TO CHICAGO
ROUTE THIS MORNING.
THE COMPANY SAID ITS DREAMLINERS
WILL RESUME INTERNATIONAL
FLIGHTS NEXT MONTH.
IN JANUARY, THE WORLDWIDE FLEET
OF 787'S WAS GROUNDED AFTER
INCIDENTS OF THE LITHIUM ION
BATTERIES OVERHEATING AND
SMOLDERING.
BOEING ULTIMATELY REDESIGNED THE
BATTERY AND ITS CHARGER.
WALL STREET HAD TROUBLE GETTING
OFF THE GROUND TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 19 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,335.
THE NASDAQ FELL TWO POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,496.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO SYRIA, WHERE
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL ASSAD'S ARMY
HAS BEEN TRYING TO RETAKE A
STRATEGICALLY CRITICAL TOWN NEAR
THE LEBANON BORDER FROM REBELS.
THE SOUNDS OF AN UNRELENTING
BATTLE IN THE SYRIAN BORDER TOWN
OF QUSAIR COULD BE HEARD FOR
MILES AROUND.
AFTER A LENGTHY SIEGE,
GOVERNMENT TROOPS, JOINED BY
HEZBOLLAH FIGHTERS FROM LEBANON,
PUSHED INTO THE TOWN, HOME TO AN
ESTIMATED 40,000 CIVILIANS.
WARPLANES AND ARTILLERY JOINED
THE ASSAULT, AND OPPOSITION
ACTIVISTS SAID SHELLS WERE
DROPPING AT A RATE OF 50 A
MINUTE.
>> (translated): AL QUSAIR IS
BEING DESTROYED BY THE ASSAD
FORCES AND HEZBOLLAH MILITIAS.
MAY GOD HELP US.
>> Woodruff: OPPOSITION
ACTIVISTS REPORTED NEARLY 30
HEOLLAZBH FIGHTERS WERE KILLED
AND ANOTHER 70 WOUNDED.
THE REBELS ALSO CLAIMED THEY
DESTROYED FOUR SYRIAN ARMY TANKS
AND FIVE HEZBOLLAH VEHICLES.
QUSAIR IS I
SIDES.
FOR THE REGIME, IT LIES ALONG DE
COAST AND THE HEARTLAND OF
PRESIDENT ASSAD'S ALAWITE SECT,
AN OFFSHOOT OF SHIITE ISLAM.
FOR THE REBELS, THE
OVERWHELMINGLY SUNNI TOWN IS A
ROUTE FOR ARMS SMUGGLING.
THE FIGHTING UNDERSCORED HOW
HEZBOLLAH'S INVOLVEMENT IN N SYA
HAS STEADILY GROWN.
THE SHI-ITE MILITANT GROUP DAN
ITS LEADER HASSAN NASRALLAH HAVE
LONG SUPPORTED ASSAD.
>> (translated): THERE ARE
TRUE FRIENDS OF SYRIA AROUND THE
WORLD, THEY WILL NOT ALLOW SYRIA
TO FALL IN THE HANDS OF
AMERICANS, ISRAEL AND SUNNI
EXTREMISTS.
>> Woodruff: IN WASHINGTON
TODAY, STATE DEPARTMENT
SPOKESMAN PATRICK VENTRELL
CONDEMNED HEZBOLLAH'S
INTERVENTION IN THE QUSAIR
FIGHT.
>> HEZBOLLAH'S OCCUPATION OF
VILLAGES ALONG THE LEBANESE-
SYRIAN BORDER AND ITS SUPPORT
FOR THE REGIME AND PRO-ASSAD
MILITIA EXACERBATE AND INFLAME
REGIONAL SECTARIAN TENSIONS AND
PERPETUATE THE REGIME'S CAMPAIGN
OF TERROR AGAINST THE SYRIAN
PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: BUT WITH
HEZBOLLAH'S HELP, ASSAD'S FORCES
HAVE MADE GAINS OF LATE, AND
THIS WEEKEND, HE TOLD AN
ARGENTINE NEWSPAPER, HE WILL NOT
STEP DOWN BEFORE ELECTIONS.
>> (translated): ANY DECISIONS
HAVING TO DO WITH REFORMS IN
SYRIA OR ANY POLITICAL ACTION
ARE LOCAL SYRIAN DECISIONS.
NEITHER THE U.S. NOR ANY OTHER
STATE IS ALLOWED TO INTERVENE IN
IT.
THIS ISSUE IS DEALT WITH IN
SYRIA.
YOU DON'T GO TO A CONFERENCE TO
DECIDE ON AN ISSUE THAT HAS NOT
BEEN DETERMINED BY THE PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: TODAY, THE U.N.
ENVOY'S REPRESENTATIVE ARRIVED
IN DAMASCUS, HOPING TO GET THE
SYRIANS TO ATTEND AN
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE
BROKERED BY THE U.S. AND RUSSIA.
IT'S PLANNED FOR SOME TIME NEXT
MONTH IN GENEVA.
>> Brown: AND WE TURN TO
THE BLOCKBUSTER DEAL ANNOUNCED
TODAY IN THE TECH WORLD: GIANT,
BUT TROUBLED YAHOO, BUYING THE
POPULAR BLOGGING SITE TUMBLR.
THE PURCHASING PRICE: $1.1
BILLION.
THE PRIZE: A FAST-GROWING
SOCIAL MEDIA SITE THAT FEATURES
MORE THAN 100 MILLION BLOGS
IN ITS NETWORK AND REACHES
SEVERAL HUNDRED MILLION PEOPLE
WORLDWIDE.
IT WAS STARTED JUST SIX YEARS
AGO BY DAVID KARP, WHO DROPPED
OUT OF HIGH SCHOOL TO WORK IN
THE TECH FIELD.
HE'LL REMAIN AS HEAD OF TUMBLR.
THIS IS THE BIGGEST MOVE YET BY
YAHOO C.E.O. MARISSA MAYER,
WHO JOINED THE COMPANY JUST
TEN MONTHS AGO FROM GOOGLE.
TODAY, SHE WROTE ON A TUMBLR
POST:
"WE PROMISE NOT TO SCREW IT UP."
REBECCA LEEB IS RESEARCH ANALYST
OF DIGITAL ADVERTISING AND MEDIA
FOR THE ALTIMETER GROUP AND
JOINS US NOW.
WELCOME TO YOU.
WHY DOES YAHOO WANT TO BUY
TUMBLR?
WHAT'S THE APPEAL?
>> THERE ARE SEVERAL APPEALING
THINGS ABOUT TUMBLR.
THERE'S CERTAINLY THE SIZE OF
THE AUDIENCE, AS YOU JUST
MENTIONED.
BUT ALSO PERHAPS MORE THAN THAT,
THE DEMOGRAPHICS OF TUMBLR'S
AUDIENCE.
YAHOO HAS BEEN LOSING USERS,
LOSING EYEBALLS FOR YEARS NOW.
TUMBLR REPRESENTS THE MILLEN
YELLS, THOSE 20-SOMETHINGS WHO
DIDN'T ABANDON YAHOO BECAUSE
THEY PROBABLY NEVER ALIGNED WITH
THE PLATFORM IN THE FIRST PLACE.
THIS IS A GROUP THAT IS
INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT TO THE
ADVERTISERS YAHOO IS IS TRYING
TO ATTRACT.
>> Brown: EXPLAIN FOR OUR
NON-TUMBLR USERS IN THE AUDIENCE
WHAT IT IS.
HOW HAS IT BEEN ABLE TO RISE SO
FAST AND APPEAL TO SO MANY
PEOPLE?
>> TUMBLR IS A BLOGGING PLATFORM
THAT IS VERY, VERY IMAGESON
TRICK.
IT'S VERY FOCUSED ON USERS
UPLOADING PHOTOGRAPHS.
THIS YOUNGER DEMOGRAPHIC IS A
VERY, VERY MOBILE DEMOGRAPHIC.
THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO HAVE THEIR
SMART PHONES WITH THEM AT ALL
TIMES.
AS ANYBODY WITH A SMART PHONE
KNOWS, IT'S MUCH EASIER TO
UPDATE YOUR STATUS WITH A QUICK
PHOTO OF WHAT YOU'RE DOING OR
WHAT YOU'RE EATING OR WHAT
YOU'RE SEEING THAN IT IS TYPING
WITH YOUR THUMBS.
WE SAW VERY RECENT MOVE LIKE
THIS WHEN FACEBOOK ACQUIRED
INSTA GRAM LAST YEAR.
ALSO FOR A BILLION DOLLARS WHICH
RAISED SOME EYEBROWS AT THE
TIME.
FACEBOOK HAS SUBSEQUENTLY
REDESIGNED ITS NEWS STREAM TO
FOCUS MORE ON THESE IMAGES AS
ITS USERS MIGRATE TO MOBILE
PLATFORMS.
I BELIEVE THAT YAHOO IS TRYING
TO DO VERY MUCH THE SAME THING.
IN FACT, SINCE THE ANNOUNCEMENT
OF THE TUMBLR ACQUISITION, YAHOO
HAS ANNOUNCED THAT THEY WILL BE
GIVING USERS SUBSTANTIALLY MORE
FREE SPACE ON FLICKER, ALSO A
YAHOO PROPERTY.
SO WE'RE SEEING A BIG MOVE
TOWARDS IMAGES AND A BIG MOVE
TOWARDS MOBILE ON YAHOO'S PART.
>> Brown: IN ALL OF THESE NEW
DEALS -- AND THIS ONE IN
PARTICULAR -- THE SCE IS STILL
HOW DO YOU MAKE MONEY OUT OF IT?
I MEAN, WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IN
THIS CASE?
IS IT LIKELY WE'D SEE MONEY MADE
THROUGH THE ADVERTISING ON
TUMBLR OR WHAT?
>> I THINK THAT THIS IS IS A
VERY INTERESTING TWO-WAY STREET.
OO COURSE, IS A
TRADITIONAL NEW MEDIA COMPANY.
TO COIN A PHRASE.
IN OTHER WORDS, THEY HAVE VERY
INTERRUPTIVE DISPLAY
ADVERTISING.
THE "CLICK HERE/BUY THIS NOW"
TYPE.
TUMBLR HAS BEEN EXPERIMENTING
WITH WHAT'S CALLED CONTENT
MARKETING.
AND FORMS OF WHAT'S KNOWN AS
NATIVE ADVERTISING.
THIS IS... THESE ARE MARKETING
MESSAGES BUT THEY'RE MORE SUBTLY
INTEGRATED INTO THE INTERFACE.
TH USER.
THEY DON'T INTERRUPT THE USER.
THEY'RE PART OF THIS STREAM AND
THEY'RE MEANT TO ATTRACT RATHER
THAN TO INTERRUPT.
YAHOO FOR THE TIME BEING WILL
LEAVE TUMBLR ALONE.
IF THEY SLAP THESE INTERACTIVE
ADS UP ON TUMBLR, THE USER S
WILL PROBABLY ABANDON THE
PROPERTY.
AT THE SAME TIME, YAHOO IS GOING
TO LEARN FROM THESE TUMBLR
PRODUCTS AND TRY AND INCORPORATE
THEM INTO YAHOO'S MORE
TRADITIONAL PROPERTIES.
AT THE SAME TIME YAHOO CAN
INTRODUCE TUMBLR TO LARGER
BRANDS AND MORE TRADITIONAL
ADVERTISERS, THE PNGs OF THE
WORLD, THE McDONALDS OF THE
WORLD.
THIS DOES HAVE THE POTENTIAL TO
BENEFIT BOTH PARTIES MONETARILY.
>> Brown: WHEN YOU WERE
REFERRING TO THE POSSIBILITY OF
USERS MIGRATING OR LEAVE,
APPARENTLY THERE'S REPORTS THAT
ALREADY SOME OF THAT IS
HAPPENING.
THAT JUST SHOWS HOW FRAGILE THIS
WHOLE SYSTEM IS, RIGHT, THIS
ECOSYSTEM OF COMPANIES AND WHERE
USERS GO.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
YOU KNOW, WE'VE SEEN COMPANIES
LIKE YAHOO STUMBLE AND LOSE
THEIR LUSTER.
A.O.L., MY SPACE, IN PERIODS OF
TIMES THAT ARE LESS THAN A
DECADE.
IT TOOK COMPANIES LIKE PAN
AMERICA AIRLINES OR FORD MOTOR
COMPANIES PERHAPS A CENTURY TO
RISE TO ASCENDENCE AND THEN TO
LOSE THEIR LUSTER.
INTERNET COMPANIES CAN DO IT
SEEMINGLY OVERNIGHT.
MARISA MAYER IS TRYING TO BRING
YAHOO BACK FROM THE BRINK AS HER
FORMER GOOGLE COLLEAGUE TIM
ARMSTRONG IS SIMILARLY TRYING
OVER AT A.O.L.
>> Brown: JUST BRIEFLY WHEN SHE
WRITES THAT POST "WE WON'T SCREW
IT UP," SHE WRITES THAT BECAUSE
A LOT OF PEOPLE REMEMBER YAHOO
DOING JUST THAT.
>> NOT ON MARISA MAYER'S WATCH.
THESE RELATIVELY NEW AT THE
COMPANY.
SHE'S BEEN THERE LESS THAN A
YEAR BUT INDEED YAHOOITIONS AND.
SO DID NEWS CORP WHEN IT
ACQUIRED MY SPACE.
ONE OF YAHOO'S REAL CHALLENGES
IS GOING TO BE HOW TO KEEP
TUMBLR COOL WHEN IT'S OWNED BY
WHAT IS VERY EASILY PE SIEVED BY
ITS VERY YOUNG, VERY HIP USER
BASE TO BE A CORPORATE OVERLORD.
>> Brown: REBECCA LEIB, THANKS
SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO THE
SOUTHEAST ASIAN COUNTRY,
MYANMAR, WHOSE PRESIDENT VISITED
THE WHITE HOUSE TODAY.
RAY SUAREZ HAS THAT STORY.
>> WE APPRECIATE YOUR EFFORTS
>> Suarez: AT THE WHITE HOUSE,
PRESIDENT OBAMA GREETED THE
PRESIDENT OF MYANMAR, THEIN
SEIN-- THE FIRST LEADER OF HIS
COUNTRY WELCOMED TO WASHINGTON
IN NEARLY 47 YEARS.
>> WE WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT U.S.
WILL ASSIST YOU
>> Suarez: FOR A HALF CENTURY, A
MILITARY JUNTA RULED MYANMAR,
ALSO KNOWN AS BURMA AND HOME TO
SOME 48 MILLION PEOPLE.
THEN, IN 2007, THEIN SEIN--
HIMSELF A GENERAL AND JUNTA
MEMBER-- BECAME PRIME MINISTER
AND BEGAN GRADUAL REFORMS.
THREE YEARS LATER, THE COUNTRY
HELD ITS FIRST ELECTIONS IN 20
YEARS, AND A WEEK AFTER THAT,
THE GOVERNMENT RELEASED LONGTIME
OPPOSITION LEADER AUNG SAN SUU
KYI FROM YEARS OF HOUSE ARREST.
IN THE FOLLOWING MONTHS,
THOUSANDS OF OTHER POLITICAL
PRISONERS WERE FREED.
THEN, IN LATE 2011, U.S.
SECRETARY OF STATE HILLARY
CLINTON MADE A LANDMARK VISIT TO
MYANMAR, MEETING WITH BOTH SUU
KYI AND THEIN SEIN.
>> I MADE IT CLEAR THAT HE, AND
THOSE WHO SUPPORT THAT VISION
WHICH HE LAID OUT FOR ME, BOTH
INSIDE AND OUTSIDE OF
GOVERNMENT, WILL HAVE OUR
SUPPORT AS THEY CONTINUE TO MAKE
PROGRESS, AND THAT THE UNITED
STATES IS WILLING TO MATCH
ACTIONS WITH ACTIONS.
>> Suarez: IN 2012, THE COUNTRY
AGAIN HELD ELECTIONS THAT
BROUGHT SUU KYI AND HER NATIONAL
LEAGUE FOR DEMOCRACY PARTY TO
POWER IN PARLIAMENT.
AND LAST NOVEMBER, PRESIDENT
OBAMA MADE HIS OWN HISTORIC
VISIT TO MYANMAR, WHERE HE
RECEIVED A HERO'S WELCOME.
SPEAKING AT YANGON UNIVERSITY,
HE LAUDED THE PROGRESS MADE
BETWEEN THE TWO NATIONS.
>> AMERICA NOW HAS AN AMBASSADOR
IN RANGOON, SANCTIONS HAVE BEEN
EASED, AND WE WILL HELP REBUILD
AN ECONOMY THAT CAN OFFER
OPPORTUNITIES FOR ITS PEOPLE AND
SERVE AS AN ENGINE OF GROWTH FOR
THE WORLD.
>> Suarez: ON THE OTHER HAND,
SOME OPPONENTS OF THEIN SEIN'SPN
VISIT.
THEY SAY HE'S BEEN TOO SLOW ON
REFORMS AND ON STOPPING THE
BLOODSHED AND DISPLACEMENT OF
ETHNIC GROUPS, MUSLIMS AND
BUDDHISTS.
EVEN TODAY, THE STATE DEPARTMENT
AGAIN DESIGNATED MYANMAR A
COUNTRY OF SPECIAL CONCERN, FOR
SEVERE VIOLATIONS OF RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM.
FOR HIS PART, THEIN SEIN DENIES
MYANMAR'S MILITARY HAS CARRIED
OUT POGROMS AGAINST ANY GROUP.
FOR MORE WE TURN TO PRISCILLA
CLAPP, A RETIRED FOREIGN SERVICE
OFFICER WHO HEADED THE U.S.
EMBASSY IN BURMA BETWEEN 1999
AND 2002.
SHE'S NOW AN ANALYST AND
CONSULTANT TO THINK TANKS AND
FOUNDATIONS.
AND JENNIFER QUIGLEY, THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE U.S.
CAMPAIGN FOR BURMA, AN
ORGANIZATION THAT SUPPORTS
DEMOCRATIZATION AND HUMAN RIGHTS
ASSISTANCE IN MYANMAR.
THIS IS STILL A VERY NEW
RELATIONSHIP.
WHERE DOES IT STAND RIGHT NOW?
>> WELL, I WOULD SAY THAT WITH
PRESIDENT THEIN SEIN'S VISIT TO
WASHINGTON WE'LL START A NEW
CHAPTER IN THE RELATIONSHIP.
I THINK THAT THE RELATIONSHIP IS
OVER THE PAST YEAR HAS BECOME
MUCH MORE NORMALIZED THAN IT WAS
BEFORE.
I EXPECT THAT WE WILL BE WORKING
VERY CLOSELY WITH MYANMAR
FUTU A
SUSTAINABLE DEMOCRACY AND
OVERCOME THE MANY CHALLENGES
THAT THEY'RE FACING RIGHT NOW.
>> Suarez: JENNIFER QUIGLEY, HOW
DO YOU SEE IT?
>> I AGREE THAT THERE HAS BEEN A
WARMING OF RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN
THE TWO COUNTRIES.
IT WORRIES US THAT IT HAS BEEN
VERY MUCH DONE BY JUST THE
GOVERNMENT AS OPPOSED TO
INVOLVING ETHNIC ARMD GROUPS OR
CIVIL SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS.
>> Suarez: BOTH SIDES HAVE MADE
PROMISES TO EACH OTHER DURING
THIS EARLY PHASE.
WHAT DO THEY WANT?
WHAT DOES THE UNITED STATES WANT
FROM MYANMAR AND THE OTHER WAY
AROUND?
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S EASIEST TO
ASCERTAIN THE BURMESE
GOVERNMENT'S AMBITIONS.
THEY WANT ALL THE SANCTIONS
LIFTED AND A FULL NORMALIZATION
OF RELATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO
COUNTRIES.
ON THE U.S. SIDE, I THINK THERE
IS A COMPLEX SET TO THE
EQUATION.
THEY WANT TO BALANCE OUT CHINA
IN THE REGION.
THEY WANT TO PROMOTE DEMOCRACY
IN THE COUNTRY.
THEY ALSO WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
AMERICAN BUSINESSES GET THE
OPPORTUNITY TO INVEST IN ALL
SECTORS OF BURR MA'S ECONOMY.
>> Suarez: HAS BURMA GIVEN
ENOUGH ON AMERICAN DEMANDS TO
GET ALL THOSE THINGS?
>> YES, I THINK THAT THEY HAVE
CERTAINLY BEEN BEEN VERY
RESPONSIVE TO OUR DEMANDS.
YOU WILL RECALL THAT FOR THE
PAST 20 YEARS, WE HAVE BEEN
ASKING THEM TO RECONCILE WITH
THE OPPOSITION AND WITH THE
MINORITY ETHNIC GROUPS.
AND THEY HAVE NOW MORE OR LESS
RECONCILED WITH THE OPPOSITION.
THEY'VE BROUGHT AWNING AWNING
INTO THE AUNG SAN SUU KYI WHILE
SHE HAS WON A SEAT IN THE
GOVERNMENT.
THEY HAVE TREATEDDED HER ALMOST
AS AN EQUAL LEADER IN THE
GOVERNMENT.
THEY STILL HAVE A LONG WAY TO GO
WITH THE ETHNIC MINORITIES BUT
THEY HAVE OPENED THE DOOR IN A
WAY THAT THE PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT
NEVER DID.
THEY HAVE INSTITUTED PRESS
FREEDOMS.
THEY HAVE ALLOWED PEOPLE TO
BECOME POLITICALLY ACTIVE, JOIN
IN THE POLITICAL PROCESS.
THEY HAVE NOW ELECTED
GOVERNMENT.
IT MAY NOT BE PERFECT.
BUT IT IS CERTAINLY HEADED IN
THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
MORE OR LESS DOING THE THINGS
THAT WE HAVE BEEN ASKING THEM
TO.
THERE ARE STILL SOME POLITICAL
PRISONERS LEFT, BUT THEY HAVE
RELEASED MANY OF THEM.
I'M SURE THAT THEY ARE ON THE
ROAD TO RELEASING THE REST OF
THEM.
THEY'VE RECENTLY RECONSTITUTED
THE COMMISSIONS DEALING WITH
POLITICAL PRISONERS AND NEARLY
HALF THE MEMBERS OF THE
CONSTITUTION ARE FORMER... OF
THE COMMISSION, EXCUSE ME, ARE
FORMER POLITICAL PRISONERS
THEMSELVES.
I COULD GO ON.
IT'S A VERY, VERY LONG LIST.
>> Suarez: JENNIFER, THE IDEA
THAT FROM TIME TO TIME MYANMAR
WILL MAKE THE NEWS BECAUSE
THERE'S EITHER
CIVILIAN-ON-CIVILIAN UNREST.
PEOPLE BEING BURNED OUT OF THEIR
HOMES, SHOPS BEING LOOTED, THAT
SORT OF THING.
OR PEOPLE IN UNIFORMS WITH
RIFLES ARE PUSHING PEOPLE AWAY
FROM A PLACE THEY SAY IS THEIRS.
WHAT'S BEEN THE STATE OF THAT
ETHNIC CONFLICT?
IS IT SOMETHING THAT SLOWED DOWN
BURMA'S PATH TO DEMOCRATIZATION?
>> WELL, I THINK THIS IS THE
HEART OF THE ROLE THAT THE
MILITARY PLAYS INSIDE THE
COUNTRY.
WE'VE SEEN A WORSENING OF THE
MILITARY'S ATTITUDE AND TACTICS
AGAINST THE MINORITIES.
SO WHILE THERE MAY HAVE BEEN
OVERTURES BY THE GOVERNMENT TO
ARRANGE CEASE-FIRES WITH THE
ETHNIC GROUPS, WE'VE SEEN IN
JUST THE PAST FEW MONTHS ALONE
THAT THE MILITARY HAS ATTACKED
AND THREATENED CEASE-FIRES
AGAINST THE ETHNIC GROUPS WHILE
THEY'VE IGNORED CEASEFIRE ORDERS
FROM THE PRESIDENT THREE TIMES
OVER THE LAST THREE YEARS TO
STOP ATTACKING ONE ETHNIC GROUP.
IT'S A VERY WORRYING TREND THAT
REGARDLESS OF THE INTENTIONS OF
THE GOVERNMENT, THE MILITARY
CONTINUES TO ACT AS IT ALWAYS
HAS.
>> Suarez: PRISCILLA CLAPP, DO
THOSE SORTS OF EVENTS MAKE IT
TOO SOON TO HOST THE PRESIDENT
THEIN SEIN IN WASHINGTON?
>> NO, I DON'T BELIEVE IT DOES
AT ALL.
I THINK THAT THEY ARE TRYING TO
TACKLE THESE PROBLEMS HONESTLY.
THE FORMER REGIME DID NOT.
THEY DENIED THAT THERE WERE ANY
PROBLEMS IN THE COUNTRY.
THEY THOUGHT THAT EVERYTHING WAS
PERFECT.
THIS GOVERNMENT RECOGNIZES THAT
THEY HAVE THESE PROBLEMS.
AND PRESIDENT THEIN SEIN IS HERE
ASKING US TO HELP.
I THINK THAT WE CERTAINLY SHOULD
HELP BECAUSE THEY ARE DOING MORE
OR LESS WHAT WE'VE BEEN ASKING
THEM TO DO.
IT IS INCUMBENT UPON US TO HELP
THEM.
>> Suarez: I'LL ASK YOU THE SAME
QUESTION, JENNIFER.
TOO SOON TO HOST THEIN SEIN AT
THE WHITE HOUSE?
>> WE FEEL IT'S TOO SOON.
THE PAST SEVERAL MONTHS THERE
HASN'T BEEN MUCH ON THE POSITIVE
FRONT THAT HAS TAKEN PLACE IN
BURMA.
THERE'S BEEN MORE ON THE
NEGATIVE FRONT.
ONE OF THE KEY ISSUES WE HAVE IS
THAT THE GOVERNMENT HASN'T
REALLY ACKNOWLEDGED THAT THERE
ARE GOVERNMENT ACTORS, WHETHER
THAT BE POLICE OR SECURITY
FORCES, THAT HAVE BEEN A PART OF
THE VIOLENCE OR ALLOWED THE
VIOLENCE TO HAPPEN.
WHAT HAS BEEN MISSING THE MOST
WITH ALL THIS VIOLENCE IS THE
PURSUIT OF JUSTICE AND
ACCOUNTABILITY.
UNTIL OUR PRESIDENT ACKNOWLEDGES
THAT THERE IS A MAJOR CONCERN,
BRINGING PRESIDENT THEIN SEIN
HERE WHERE HE DOESN'T
ACKNOWLEDGE THE CONCERN, IT
SHOWS THAT THIS RELATIONSHIP
WILL MOVE FORWARD REGARDLESS OF
WHETHER THERE'S MADE ON JUSTICE
AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
>> Suarez: GIVEN WHAT YOU JUST
SAID, WHY IS THE UNITED STATES
PUTTING SO MUCH CAPITAL, SO MUCH
URGENCY ON PUSHING THIS
BILATERAL RELATIONSHIP ALONG?
THINGS HAVE MOVED VERY QUICKLY.
>> I THINK THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA
IN HIS FIRST INAUGURAL SPEECH
SAID IF YOU UNCLENCH YOUR FIST
WE'LL OUTSTRETCH OUR HAND.
BURMA WAS THE ONLY COUNTRY
WILLING TO ENGAGE WITH THE THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT AND MAKE THAT
SORT OF CHANGE AND GROW THAT
RELATIONSHIP.
UNFORTUNATELY FOR US, IT COMES
AT THE EXPENSE OF THERE NOT
BEING MUCH PROGRESS ON ISSUES
THAT THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY
HAS LET FALL BY THE WAYSIDE, THE
HUMAN RIGHTS AGENDA, THE PURSUIT
OF HOLDING THE MILITARY
ACCOUNTABLE FOR THE ATROCITIES
THAT IT CONTINUES TO CREATE.
>> Suarez: SAME QUESTION,
PRISCILLA.
WHY THIS SPEEDING ALONG OF THE
U.S. MYANMAR RELATIONSHIP.
>> THEY HAVE MADE TREMENDOUS
STRIDES IN THE LAST TWO YEARS.
THEY DESERVE A LOT OF CREDIT FOR
THAT.
IT IS A VERY POOR, BACKWARD
COUNTRY THAT HAS BEEN ISOLATED
FOR A CENTURY.
MORE THAN 50 YEARS.
AND THEY'RE TRYING TO CATCH UP
WITH THE REST OF THE WORLD RIGHT
NOW.
THEY HAVE A LOT OF SOCIAL
PROBLEMS THAT THEY MUST
OVERCOME.
I DOESN'T MEAN IT'S BEING
DIRECTED BY THE GOVERNMENT.
IN FACT, I BELIEVE THE
GOVERNMENT IS TRYING TO FACE THE
PROBLEM.
>> Suarez: PRISCILLA CLAPP,
JENNIFER QUIGLEY, THANK YOU
BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: MAKING CITIES WORK
BETTER THROUGH HIGH-TECH
INNOVATION.
THAT'S THE AMBITIOUS GOAL
OF ONE SAN FRANCISCO STARTUP.
"NEWSHOUR" CORRESPONDENT
SPENCER MICHELS HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Reporter: THE SCRAMBLED EGGS
AND HOMEMADE WAFFLES DISAPPEARED
QUICKLY AT THIS FREE BREAKFAST
FOR CHILDREN AND THEIR MOMS IN
EAST PALO ALTO, A LARGELY
MINORITY COMMUNITY IN THE HEART
OF CALIFORNIA'S WEALTHY SILICON
VALLEY.
MANY RESIDENTS HERE, POSSIBLY
TENS OF THOUSANDS, QUALIFY FOR
FOOD ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS BUT
AREN'T ACCESSING THEM.
SOME ARE SIMPLY UNAWARE SUCH
PROGRAMS EXIST.
THAT WAS THE CASE WITH JACKIE
OWENS, A SINGLE WORKING MOM WHO
SAYS SHE WAS STRUGGLING TO GET
BY BEFORE SHE LEARNED ABOUT THE
NONPROFIT ECUMENICAL HUNGER
PROGRAM.
>> I WAS IN TOUCH WITH SOCIAL
WORK, AND I NEVER HEARD ABOUT
THIS PROGRAM UNTIL WORD OF MOUTH
THROUGH A FRIEND.
>> Reporter: BEVERLY JOHNSON IS
IN CHARGE OF FOOD ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS FOR MATEO COUNTY.
>> WE ACTUALLY HAD BEEN
STRUGGLING WITH THE ISSUE OF
PROVIDING ACCESS TO FOOD, TO
FREE FOOD, TO REDUCE PRIC FOOEDD
FOR OUR RESIDENTS OF OUR COUNTY.
>> Reporter: JOHNSON AND HER
GOVERNMENT COLLEAGUES DECIDED TO
TRY A VERY UN-GOVERNMENTAL
APPROACH TO THE PROBLEM.
THEY REACHED OUT TO A GROUP OF
SAVVY YOUNG TECHIES FOR HELP.
THIS IS THE HEADQUARTERS OF CODE
FOR AMERICA.
CODE AS IN COMPUTER CODE.
IT'S A NEW SAN FRANCISCO-BASED
NONPROFIT WHICH CONNECTS
TECHNOLOGY PROFESSIONALS, LIKE
WEB PROGRMERSAM AND DESIGNERS,
TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS, LIKE SAN
MATEO COUNTY, WHICH ARE SEEKING
INNOVATIVE WAYS TO IMPROVE THEIR
SERVICES.
CODE FOR AMERICA, WHICH HAS BEEN
DUBBED THE "PEACE CORPS FOR
GEEKS" OFFERS A ONE YEAR, PAID
FELLOWSHIP FOR HIGH-TECH
APPLICANTS WHO WANT TO GIVE
BACK.
THE ORGANIZATION RECEIVES
FUNDING FROM THE KNIGHT
FOUNDATION, GOOGLE, AND EBAY
FOUNDER PIERRE OMIDYAR'S
FOUNDATION, AS WELL AS FROM THE
CITIES WHICH RECEIVE HELP.
FELLOWS HAVE DEVELOPED MORE THAN
50 WEBSITES AND APPLICATIONS OR
APPS TO HELP SOLVE A SPECIFIC
PROBLEM FACING A CITY AND ITS
RESIDENTS.
THIS ONE IN BOSTON ALLOWS
RESIDENTS TO ADOPT A FIRE
HYDRANT AND BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
SHOVELING IT OUT WHEN IT SNOWS
AND A WEBSITE IN NEW ORLEANS
TRACKS HOW THE CITY IS DEALING
WITH BLIGHTED PROPERTIES.
>> WE THINK THAT THE PEOPLE HAVE
THE SKILLS OF CODING AND DESIGN
AND CREATING TECHNOLOGY, REALLY
HAVE SOMETHING TO OFFER THE
COUNTRY RIGHT NOW, AND WE THINK
GOVERNMENT IS WHERE THEY NEED TO
BRING IT.
>> Reporter: THE GOAL OF CODE
FOR AMERICA, SAYS 43-YEAR-OLD
FOUNDER JENNIFER PAHLKA, IS TO
INJECT SOME SILICON VALLEY
ENTHUSIASM AND KNOW-HOW INTO
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.
>> SO FEW PEOPLE VOTE THESE DAYS
AND I THINK IT'S PARTLY BECAUSE
THEY DON'T FEEL LIKE THE
INSTITUTION REALLY MEANS
ANYTHING TO THEM.
IF YOU WANT THEM TO VOTE, GIVE
THEM OPPORTUNITIES TO DO
SOMETHING ELSE OTHER THAN VOTE,
TO HELP.
GOVERNMENT IS SUPPOSED TO BE
ABOUT HOW WE DO THINGS TOGETHER,
AND WE CAN DO THAT MUCH MORE
TOGETHER IF WE USE TECHNOLOGY
SMARTLY RIGHT NOW.
>> Reporter: SOME FELLOWS HAVE
COME FROM WELL-KNOWN TECH
COMPANIES LIKE APPLE AND YAHOO,
AND MANY TAKE A SIZABLE PAY CUT,
RECEIVING $35,000 FOR THE YEAR.
MONCEF BELYAMANI CAME TO CODE
FOR AMERICA FROM A.O.L.
HE IS PART OF A THREE-PERSON
TEAM, INCLUDING SOPHIA PARAFINA
AND ANSELM BRADFORD, ASSIGNED TO
WORK WITH SAN MATEO COUNTY.
>> I SAW A UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY TO
USE MY SKILLS AND BEING
SURROUNDED BY SMART AND TALENTED
PEOPLE WHO SHARE THE SAME VISION
FOR IMPROVING SOCIETY.
>> Reporter: TEN CITIES AND
COUNTIES WERE CHOSEN THIS YEAR
TO RECEIVE CODE FOR AMERICA'S
HELP, OUT OF DOZENS THAT
APPLIED.
THE SAN MATEO COUNTY TEAM SPENT
A MONTH MEETING WITH RESIDENTS
AND OFFICIALS INVOLVED IN FOOD
DISTRIBUTION, TO UNDERSTAND HOW
THE WHOLE PROCESS WORKED.
>> WE'VE WORKED AT COMMUNITY
SHELTERS, AND WITH FOOD
DISTRIBUTION, HELPING SORT FOOD,
PREPARED FOOD, HELPING PEOPLE
CARRY THE FOOD OUT TO CARS AND
TALKING TO THEM.
>> ANOTHER PROJECT WE
PARTICIPATED IN WAS THE FOOD
STAMPS CHALLENGE.
SO WE ALL PLEDGED TO TRY TO LIVE
ON THE AVERAGE WEEKLY ALLOTMENT
WHICH IS $37.25.
>> Reporter: WERE YOU HUNGRY?
>> YEAH, WE WERE HUNGRY.
>> Reporter: THE THREE
DISCOVERED MANY SOCIAL SERVICE
WORKERS LKED ACUP-TO-DATE
INFORMATION ABOUT FOOD PROGRAMS.
THEY ARE NOW DEVELOPING A
PROGRAM THEY THINK COULD HELP.
>> WE'RE GOING TO BUILD AN
APPLICATION THAT HELPS THE
DIFFERENT COMMUNITY BASED
ORGANIZATIONS REFER CLIENTS TO
THE SERVICES THAT THEY WOULD BE
ELIGIBLE FOR.
>> IF WE PUT THIS THING ON THE
WEB, PEOPLE CAN GO AND LOOK FOR
THEMSELVES, AND ACCESS THESE
SERVICES.
>> SO IF YOU NEED SOMETHING LIKE
SAY FOOD, YOU CAN TYPE 'FOOD' IN
HERE.
>> Reporter: THEY MET RECENTLY
MET WITH DONALD HUNTER, PROGRAM
MANGER OF THE ECUMENICAL HUNGER
PROGRAM, TO GET HIS FEEDBACK
>> IT SOUNDS LIKE IT IS A GOOD
IDEA.
IT WILL BE VERY IMPORTANT THAT
INDIVIDUALS GET INVOLVED WITH
THE AGENCIES BECAUSE A MAJORITY
OF PEOPLE DON'T HAVE COMPUTERS
OR ACCESS TO INTERNET.
SO I SEE IT MISSING A LOT OF
PEOPLE IN THIS AREA BECAUSE OF
THAT.
>> Reporter: DESPITE HUNTER'S
RESERVATIONS, THE TEAM BELIEVES
T
COMMUNITY WILL BE ABLE TO ACCESS
THE TECHNOLOGY THEY ARE
DEVELOPING.
>> IN OUR FOCUS GROUPS, WE TALK
TO PEOPLE, AND THEY HAVE ACCESS
TO THE WEB, THEY GO TO THE
LIBRARIES, THEY BORROW OTHER
PEOPLE'S COMPUTERS, SOME OF THEM
HAVE SMART PHONES, SO THE
TECHNOLOGY IS PERVASIVE, AND IT
IS THERE, AND PEOPLE ARE WILLING
TO USE IT.
IT'S A MATTER OF TAKING THAT
TECHNOLOGY AND TURNING IT INTO
SOMETHING THAT ANYBODY CAN USE.
>> Reporter: THEY ALSO HAVE
STAYED IN CLOSE TOUCH WITH HUMAN
SERVICES DIRECTOR BEVERLY
JOHNSON.
>> I ASSUME WITH WHATEVER IS
DEVELOPED, SOMEONE WHO SAYS,
"I'M THE KEEPER OF THE DATA."
>> Reporter: JOHNSON SAYS SHE IS
EXCITED ABOUT HOW THE PROJECT IS
DEVELOPING, BUT SHE HAS ONE BIG
QUESTION.
>> IF WE INVEST IN THE TIME AND
ENERGY TO FORM THIS REALLY
WE COME UP WITH SOMETHINGHAT T'S
BEAUTIFUL AND SIMPLE AND EASY TO
USE, BUT A YEAR FROM NOW THEY GO
AWAY, AND WE DON'T HAVE THE
RESOURCES TO MAKE IT REALLY A
REALITY FOR OUR ORGANIZATION,
HAVE WE DONE ANYTHING OTHER THAN
SORT OF CREATE AN EXPECTATION?
>> I THINK THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO HELP, BUT I DON'C
PILL.
>> Reporter: JUDY NADLER IS THE
FORMER MAYOR OF SANTA CLARA,
CALIFORNIA AND NOW TEACHES AT
SANTA CLARA UNIVERSITY.
WHEN SHE WAS AT CITY HALL, SHE
FOUND IT WAS TOUGH FOR
GOVERNMENT TO ACTUALLY IMPLEMENT
NEW PROGRAMS IMPOSED FROM THE
OUTSIDE.
>> HAVING GREAT IDEAS IS
WONDERFUL, BUT HOW CAN YOU PAY
FOR IT AND HOW CAN YOU SUSTAIN
THAT?
IT TAKES PEOPLE AND RESOURCES
AND GOVERNMENT IS SHORT RIGHT
NOW ON BOTH.
>> Reporter: CODE FOR AMERICA'S
JENNIFER PAHLKA SAYS KEEPING THE
PROJECTS GOING ONCE THE FELLOWS'
YEAR IS OVER IS ONE OF HER TOP
PRIORITIES.
>> WHAT WE'VE SEEN IS SOME OF
OUR PROJECTS DON'T LIVE ON, BUT
MOST OF THEM HAVE.
THE TEAM THAT WORKED WITH NEW
ORLEANS ON THIS PROJECT AROUND
BEING ABLE TO SEE THE STATUS OF
BLIGHTED PROPERTIES.
>> Reporter: BLIGHTED PROPERTIES
FROM KATRINA?
>> EXACTLY.
THEY DID A FANTASTIC JOB THERE,
THE CITY WAS SO HAPPY THEY
OFFERED THE TEAM A CONTRACT TO
CONTINUE TO MAINTAIN AND FURTHER
DEVELOP THAT SOFTWARE SO THAT
NEW ORLEANS ALWAYS HAS ACCESS TO
IT.
>> Reporter: PAHLKA SAYS
GOVERNMENTS SHOULD BE OPEN TO
NEW AND MORE COST EFFECTIVE WAYS
OF DOING BUSINESS.
>> WE'RE SPENDING TOO MUCH MONEY
ON GOVERNMENT TECHNOLOGY, THAT'S
ABSOLUTELY CLEAR.
WE SAW LAST YEAR THAT THE
CALIFORNIA COURT SYSTEM SHUT
DOWN AN EFFORT THAT HAD, SO FAR,
COST TWO BILLION DOLLARS, AND IT
WASN'T TO SEND A MAN TO THE
MOON; IT WAS TO GET THE COURTS
TO BE ABLE TO SHARE DOCUMENTS.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO BE TAKING ON
TWO BILLION DOLLAR SOFTWARE
PROJECTS, BUT WE ARE SHOWING
WHAT'S POSSIBLE, AND THEN GIVING
PEOPLE IN GOVERNMENT THE
POLITICAL WILL TO SAY, "NO,
LET'S NOT DO IT THAT WAY THIS
TIME."
>> Reporter: CODE FOR AMERICA
ISN'T THE ONLY CURRENT EFFORT
HOPING TO BRING TECHNOLOGY
SOLUTIONS TO GOVERNMENT:
LAST YEAR THE WHITE HOUSE BEGAN
A PRESIDENTIAL INNOVATION
FELLOWS PROGRAM.
AND SOME CITIES ARE INVITING
TECH SAVVY VOLUNTEERS TO DEVELOP
CIVIC APPS DURING SESSIONS KNOWN
TODAY AS HACK-A-TONS.
AFTER GETTING MORE FEEDBACK FROM
RESIDENTS AND OFFICIALS, THE SAN
MATEO TEAM EXPECTS TO LAUNCH
ITS FOOD APP BY OCTOBER.
AND IN JANUARY, A NEW GROUP OF
EAGER YOUNG TECH ENTHUSIASTS
ARRIVES TO TAKE ON A NEW SET OF
CIVIC CHALLENGES.
>> Brown: ONLINE, SPENCER
SAT DOWN WITH TWO CODE FOR
AMERICA FELLOWS WHO FOUNDED
BLIGHT-STATUS, THE APP THAT
TRACKS HOW THE CITY OF NEW
ORLEANS IS DEALING WITH
ABANDONED BUILDINGS.
WATCH THEIR CONVERSATION ON THE
RUNDNDOWN.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, CHANGES TO
THE SO-CALLED BIBLE OF
PSYCHIATRY AND WHAT IT MEANS
FOR DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT.
THIS WEEKEND, THE AMERICAN
PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION RELEASED
A REVISION TO THE DIAGNOSTIC AND
STATISTICAL MANUAL OF MENTAL
DISORDERS, OFTEN REFERRED
TO AS "THE D.S.M."
IT'S THE FIRST COMPREHENSIVE
UPDATE SINCE 1994.
DOCTORS OFTEN UTILIZE THE D.S.M.
TO DIAGNOSE MENTAL ILLNESSES.
AND THERE'S BEEN MUCH DEBATE
OVER THE YEARS ABOUT ITS ROLE.
WE LOOK AT THE CHANGES TO THIS
MANUAL WITH TWO EXPERTS.
DOCTOR MICHAEL FIRST, A
PSYCHIATRIST AT NEW YORK
PRESBYTERIAN HOSPITAL AND
A PROFESSOR AT COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY.
AND DOCTOR STEVEN HYMAN, FORMER
DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH AT
N.I.H.
HE'S THE DIRECTOR OF THE STANLEY
CENTER FOR PSYCHIATRIC RESEARCH
AT THE BROAD INSTITUTE.
GENTLEMEN, WE WELCOME YOU BOTH.
DR. FIRST, LET ME TURN TO YOU.
WHY IS THIS UPDATED DIAGNOSTIC
MANUAL SO IMPORTANT?
>> WELL, THE REASON IT'S SO
IMPORTANT IS THAT THE D.S.N. IS
THE GUIDE BOOK THAT IS USED BY
ALL MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONALS.
IT'S CRUCIAL TO THEIR ABILITY TO
PRACTICE.
IT DEFINES ALL THE PSYCHIATRIC
DIAGNOSES AND THE PSYCHIATRIC
DIAGNOSIS, ARRIVING AT A CORRECT
PSYCHIATRIC DIAGNOSES IS THE
FIRST STEP IN TRYING TO PICK THE
CORRECT TREATMENT FOR PATIENTS.
IT HAS AN ENORMOUS INFLUENCE ON
EVERYBODY'S ABILITY TO PROVIDE
THE BEST TREATMENT POSSIBLE.
>> Woodruff: YOU HAVE A SOMEWHAT
DIFFERENT TAKE ON THE VALUE OF
IT.
>> WELL, I THINK IT'S CRITICALLY
IMPORTANT, AS DR. FIRST SAID,
FOR DIAGNOSIS AND FOR INSURANCE
REIMBURSEMENT, BUT I THINK THAT
THE D.S.N. IS SCIENTIFIC EARLY.
THE BRAIN GIVES UP ITS SECRETS
GRUDGINGLY.
WE HAVE TO UNDERSTAND THE D.S.M.
AS A SET OF GUIDELINES TO
DIAGNOSIS OF OFTEN VERY SERIOUS
DISORDERS.
BUT NOT AS THE BIBLE OF
PSYCHIATRY.
IT IS HARDLY MEANT TO BE BY
EITHER THE PEOPLE WHO WROTE IT
OR IN REALITY A PERFECT MIRROR
OF NATURE.
>> Woodruff: IF IT'S AN
IMPERFECT THING, DR. FIRST, HOW
DOES THAT AFFECT WHAT DOCTORS
CAN DO AND HOW PATIENTS ARE
HELPED OR NOT HELPED?
>> WELL, IT'S IMPERFECT MAINLY
BECAUSE OUR UNDERSTANDING OF THE
CORE OF HOW MENTAL DISORDERS,
WHAT'S BEHIND MEANTAL DISORDERS,
REMAINS.
THERE'S A LOT MORE TO BE
UNDERSTOOD.
CERTAINLY AS WE UNDERSTAND MORE
OVER THE YEARS OUR ABILITY TO
PROVIDE THE ULTIMATELY BEST
TREATMENT WILL CONTINUE TO BE
IMPROVED BUT WHAT THE BOOK DOES
NOW, IT'S REALLY A CULMINATION
OF WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT MENTAL
DISORDERS.
THAT'S VERY, VERY HELPFUL IN
BEING ABLE TO PICK THE RIGHT
TREATMENT.
SO I AGREE WITH DR. HYMAN.
IT'S CERTAINLY NOT A BIBLE.
I THINK A BETTER WAY TO LOOK AT
THE D.S.M., IT'S LIKE
ADDICTIONARY.
IT ALLOWS PEOPLE TO COMMUNICATE.
IT ALLOWS MENTAL HEALTH
PROFESSIONALS TO COMMUNICATE
WITH ONE ANOTHER AND WITH THEIR
PATIENTS.
IT ALLOWS US TO COMMUNICATE WITH
ADMINISTRATORS SO THAT WE'RE ALL
TALKING ABOUT THE SAME
CONDITIONS.
IT HAS ITS LIMITS BECAUSE OUR
KNOWLEDGE OF THE WAY MENTAL
DISORDERS WORK HAS THEIR LIMITS.
>> Woodruff: DR. HYMAN, SO HOW
ARE PATIENTS AFFECTED BY THE
CHANGES IN THIS NEW VERSION OF
THE MANUAL?
>> WELL, I THINK THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING ARE PATIENTS.
AFTER ALL DISEASES LIKE BI-POLAR
DISORDER, AUTISM, DPLETION
DEPRESSION, O.C.D. AND I COULD
GO ON, ARE THE MOST DISABLING
DISORDERS IN AGGREGATE AND CAUSE
ENORMOUS SUFFERING.
IT'S CRITICAL THAT DOCTORS AND
IN FACT ALL MENTAL HEALTH
PROFESSIONALS HAVE WAYS OF
MATCHING PATIENTS WITH TREATMENT
AND ALSO THAT THE WHOLE
ADMINISTRATIVE APPARATUS AROUND
MEDICINE HAS A WAY OF
REIMBURSING THOSE THINGS.
WHAT THE D.S.M. DOES IS TO
PROVIDE A SHARED LANGUAGE SO MES
AND PATIENTS AND INSURANCE
COMPANIES KNOW THEY'RE TALKING
ABOUT THE SAME THING.
I THINK THAT IS ALL WELL AND
GOOD AS LONG AS WE DON'T ASSUME
THAT EVERY SEMICOLON IN THE
DOCUMENT IS SOMEHOW RIGIDLY
GUIDING US.
SO IN THE END, I HOPE THAT WITH
THIS NEW REVISION AND WITH,
DESPITE THE CONTROVERSIES, THAT
WELL TRAINED MENTAL HEALTH
PROFESSIONALS WILL STILL MAKE
SURE THAT ALL PATIENTS IN NEED
OF SERVICES GET SERVICES.
AND I DON'T REALLY SEE ANYTHING
IN THE REVISIONS THAT SHOULD GET
IN THE WAY OF THAT.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S A QUESTION.
DR. FIRST, I MEAN, HOW MUCH
DANGER IS THERE?
BECAUSE THERE ARE SOME CHANGES
IN HERE.
FOR EXAMPLE, ASPERGERS IS I
GUESS NO LONGER IN A SEPARATE
CATEGORY.
IT'S PUT UNDER THE HEADING OF
AUTISM.
BUT THAT'S JUST ONE OF A NUMBER
OF MODIFICATIONS THAT WERE MADE.
HOW DO YOU SEE PATIENTS BEING
AFFECTED BY THIS?
>> WELL, THE BELIEF IS THAT
SINCE THE MANUAL REFLECTS THE
CURRENT SCIENCE -- AND SCIENCE
CONTINUES TO MOVE ALONG, PERHAPS
SLOWER THAN A LOT OF PEOPLE
WOULD LIKE IT TO -- BUT THERE IS
STILL A CONTINUING IMPROVEMENT
IN OUR DESCRIPTION OF MENTAL
DISORDERS AND OUR ABILITY TO BE
ABLE TO PREDICT THEIR COURSE.
SO THE D.S.M. WILL PROVIDE
PATIENTS AS WELL AS THEIR
CLINICIANS WITH THE MOST
UP-TO-DATE INFORMATION TO BE
ABLE TO PROVIDE HELP.
AGAIN, IT'S FAR FROM PERFECT BUT
IT'S STILL EXTREMELY USEFUL.
IT'S THE BEST WE HAVE.
I THINK WE HAVE A LOT TO OFFER
OUR PATIENTS, AND THE D.S.M. IS
REALLY THE MOST UP-TO-DATE TOOL
TO PROVIDE THAT HELP TO OUR
PATIENTS.
>> I HEARD DR. HYMAN SAY IF
PROFESSIONALS INTERPRET IT TOO
RIGIDLY, THAT COULD BE HARMFUL.
>> THAT'S TRUE.
ONE OF THE RULES ON THE FRONT OF
THE D.S.M. THAT HAS BEEN THERE
SINCE THE BEGINNING SAYS IT
VERY, VERY CLEARLY.
IT'S NOT TO BE USED AS A COOK
BOOK.
CLINICAL JUDGMENT.
PEOPLE GO AND LEARN HOW TO BE
MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONALS AND
SPEND YEARS IN PRACTICE GAINING
A SKILL.
THAT SKILL IS THE ABILITY TO USE
THEIR CLINICAL JUDGMENT IN
MAKING DECISIONS.
THAT CLINICAL JUDGMENT REMAINS
CRUCIAL.
THE D.S.M. IS PART OF THE
DECISION-MAKING PROCESS FOR
MAKING A PSYCHIATRIC DIAGNOSIS.
DR. HYMAN IS ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
IF SOMEBODY WERE TO OPEN UP THE
BOOK AND JUST READ THE WORDS AND
JUST APPLY THEM WITHOUT USING
ANY CLINICAL JUDGMENT, THAT
COULD BE VERY, VERY HARMFUL.
THAT'S COMPLETELY AT ODDS WITH
THE WAY THE BOOK IS SUPPOSED TO
BE USED.
IT SAYS SO IN FRONT OF THE BOOK
IN PLAIN LANGUAGE.
THIS IS NOT A COOK BOOK.
THIS MUST BE USED WITH CLINICAL
JUDGMENT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE USE
THAT INSURANCE COMPANIES AND
OTHERS MAKE?
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS MAKE OF
THIS?
AND HOW DOCTORS USE IT?
>> WELL, I OFTEN SAY THAT
DOCTORS USE THE BOOK BUT JUST IN
THE WAY THAT DR. FIRST SAID,
WITH CLINICAL JUDGMENT.
PEOPLE WHO ARE INSURANCE CLAIMS
ADJUSTORS AND EDUCATORS AND
PEOPLE IN COURTS OF LAW ARE NOT
TRAINED AS CLINICIANS AND TEND
TO READ THE BOOK QUITE
LITERALLY.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WITH
THE REVISION THERE BE
APPROPRIATE EDUCATIONAL EFFORTS
AGAIN TO MAKE SURE THAT NOBODY
WHO REALLY IS IN NEED OF
SERVICES IS DENIED SERVICES OR
THE BOOK IS TAKEN TO BE TOO
LITERAL.
I THINK GIVEN OUR CURRENT STATE
OF KNOWLEDGE, THERE HAVE TO BE
COMPROMISES.
AND THE BOOK PROVIDES A WAY OF
COMMUNICATING BETWEEN CLINICIANS
AND PATIENTS AND PEOPLE LIKE
INSURANCE CLAIMS EXAMINERS.
THAT SAID, I THINK THE GREATEST
PROBLEM WITH THE BOOK -- AND I
THINK DR. FIRST AND I AGREE WITH
THIS -- THE PEOPLE WHO TAKE IT
LEAST LITERALLY ARE SCIENTISTS
BECAUSE YOU CAN GET YOURSELF
INTO THE FIX THAT IF YOU
RECOGNIZE THAT THE BOOK IS
IMPERFECT BUT YOU FORCE YOURSELF
TO FOLLOW EVERY DICTATE QUITE
LITERALLY, THEN YOU FIND
YOURSELF UNABLE TO MAKE THE VERY
NECESSARY PROGRESS THAT
PSYCHIATRY NEEDS.
AGAIN THE BRAIN IS THE MOST
COMPLICATED ORGAN IN THE HISTORY
OF HUMAN SCIENTIFIC ENDEAVOR.
WE NEED TO BE ABLE TO APPROACH
IT WITH AN OPEN MIND.
>> Woodruff: IT IS... IT DOES
OFFER SOME BIG CHANGES.
WE THANK YOU BOTH FOR HELPING US
AT LEAST UNDERSTAND A PART OF
HOW IT ALL WORKS.
DR. MICHAEL FIRST, DR. STEVEN
HYMAN, WE THANK YOU BOTH. YOU.
Brown: AGAIN THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
A MILE-WIDE TORNADO LEFT
WIDESPREAD DEVASTATION NEAR
OKLAHOMA CITY.
WINDS UP TO 200 MILES AN HOUR
SHREDDED HOMES AND BUSINESSES,
CRUSHED CARS AND TOUCHED OFF
FIRES.
THERE WAS NO IMMEDIATE WORD ON
CASUALTIES.
SECTARIAN KILLING ACROSS IRAQ
LEFT AT LEAST 95 PEOPLE DEAD AND
THE SENATE INVESTIGATION FOUND
APPLE HAS USED A SERIES OF
MANEUVERS TO AVOID PAYING
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN TAXES.
THE COMPANY SAID ALL ITS
PRACTICES ARE LEGAL.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, WE HAVE
MORE COVERAGE FROM TODAY'S
MONSTER TORNADO.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU CAN WATCH
VIDEO OF THE AS IT MADE ITS WAY
ACROSS OKLAHOMA.
YOU CAN ALSO SEE SCENES FROM THE
DAMAGE IT CAUSED
IN ITS WAKE, THAT'S ON THE
HOMEPAGE.
CAN RECEIVE THE MOST FROM
SOCIAL SECURITY.
IT'S PART OF OUR ONGOING
COVERAGE ON MAKING SENSE.
>> Brown: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT...
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE...
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.